---
layout: post
title: Books in 2020
tags: [learning, books]
# image: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/743164?s=280&v=4
---
These are the books that I have read in 2020 without considering technical books:

# Inspired. Marty Cagan

[Marty Cagan](https://twitter.com/cagan) is considered the father of Product Management. This is a great book that touches on many topics related to how to create tech products such as: people and roles in a product organization, product processes and culture. Definitely a book to come back to it from time to time.

# Freakonomics. Steven D. Levitt & Stephen J. Dubner

It would have been a great book for my teenage years or early adulthood but I didn't find it very attractive at this point. The main thesis is that *people is moved by incentives* (either economical or from other nature) which is the nature of economical behavior. 

# Essentialism: The Disciplined Persuit of Less. Greg Mckeown

A great book on a "way of living", productivity and I would also say happiness. We live in a global and interconnected world where there are a lot of opportunities, a lot new shiny things and many ways that to spend our time. Saying yes to many things and thinking that we can do it all is a way of setting us up for failure. This book defends the thesis that less is more but in order to succeed you need to be questioning yourself continuously:
* Is this essential? 
* What is the thing that has the highest contribution?
* Where is the law of diminishing returns starts to kick in?

Worth a re-reading every year.

# Re-work: Jason Fried & Heinemeier Hansson

It defends the same thesis as the previous one. "Less is more". It was a meh! 

# Zero to One. Peter Thiel

Loved it. About innovation, avoiding competition, exponential growth, ...

# What I learned losing 1 million dollars.

Captivating read on greed, success, and loss aversion. Some pearls:
* "Success can be built upon repeated failures when failures aren't taken personally; likewise, failure can be built upon repeated successes when successes are taken personally."
* "Personalizing success sets people up for disastrous failure. They begin to treat the successes totally  as a personal reflection of their abilities rather than the result of capitalizing on a good opportunity, being at the right place ..., or even being just plain lucky"
* "I can't get out here; I'm losing too much. - LOSER'S FAMOUS LAST WORDS"
* "The basic distintion between the indidual and the crowd is that the individual acts after reasoning, deliberation, and analysis; a crowd acts on feeling, emotion, and impulses"
* "Having to have an opinion on everything or answer for everything puts you into a crownd mentality"
* "A fool must now and then be right by change -- William Cowper"
* "If your estimate self-worth rises and falls with your successes and failures, wins and losses, profitable and unprofitable business transactions, then you self-concept will be in a constant state of crisis"
* "In all risk taking ... it is the loss side on which you must focus first"

# Never Split the Difference. Chris Voss

FBI negotiator Do not let feelings or emotions interfere in negotiation or your are doomed. Tradeoffs are not good for anybody. Some pearls:

* "When the pressure is on, you don't rise to the occation, you fall to you highest level of preparation"
* "... one of FBI's most potent negotiation tools: the open-ended question"
* "In this world, you get what you ask for; you just have to ask correctly"
* "No deal is better than a bad deal"

# Open. Andre Agassi

Great book on the Tenis legend Andre Agassi. Very entertaining and fun.

# The Psychology of Money. Morgan Housel

Tons of pearls as well. It is worth re-reading in the future.
